I met up with a friend yesterday and posed the question to him. It's the first time I really posed it to anyone. "Why are you alive?"

What I noticed, and I shouldn't be surprised, is that the conversation quickly shifted to center around the nature of his current struggle. He's at a crossroads, he explained, and he went on to describe a lot of the day-to-day pulls that he is contending with. I got the sense that his focus is on the very immediate and very present orientation to his current situation.

I imagine a lot of us are like that.

What else could we answer?

I imagine a visible few of us will talk about an object level thing we love. Writing, running, skiing, etc. Kids. Teaching. Maybe we've found a hobby or a vocation and in it we find ourselves sufficiently lit up that it becomes a driving force in our lives. I'll call those the "object people." They can explain what they love to someone in a 2 minute conversation.

Some of us will have a larger mission or vision for what we want to do or achieve. It may or may not be characterized by a clear, measurable goal. Women's rights, climate change, criminal justice reform, etc. These are the "movement people." They're focused on changing some structural aspect of our reality.

What else is out there? Well, I imagine a ton of things! I, for instance, am not living for object-level things. I'm also not living for mission related ones, either. I like object level things, and I love missions (I'm nurturing a few of my own, which I'm writing about here), but those are not my why. What is my why? Well... curiosity, I guess. Immersion. Absorption. I love this reality. The sensory experiences of life—the good, the bad, and the strange—I love them all. If I'm rawly honest, this is what I keep coming back to. What would that make me? A "sense person"? Haha. Perhaps. I wonder if there are more like me. I wonder how they guide their lives. I have had a sense for a long time that if I was truly given 100% to the joy of sensing, my life would look a good deal different.

Oh, I think there's a subset of "sense people" — people who discover and fall in love with one particular sense in one particular format. I'm thinking of a lot of people who do physical sports—running, swimming, skydiving. When you watch some of those people talk about their commitment to their sport, you can see it; there's something in them that lights up and is fueled by the immersive experience of their sport. I guess there are some chefs and artists that are this way, as well. I guess you could call them "sense people," too, and maybe you can call me a "sense generalist," or something. I just love variety. I do have some favorite ones, too. "Sensory experiences I've known and loved," heh.