Did another ideal parent figure (IPF) session with [Harry](https://x.com/harry_taussig) yesterday. This time was even more interesting than the last.

To summarize:

The first time had me relating to my ideal parents one on one. I was surprised to find that my ideal relationship with the mother was one that included a healthy amount of distance. It seems that my pathological desire for closeness and enmeshment was not a core need, but rather an outgrowth of another unmet core need: consistency and availability. Because my working mom was only partially available, I (and she, probably) tried to make up for it with closeness and hyper-attunement. It may have helped, but it backfired in the sense that it gave me an insatiable appetite for closeness. Anyway, that first session had me relate to the maternal in a different way, and that seemed to untie some things. The father was a bit less detailed—he merely urged me to _act_, with no concern for the outcomes or the actual choices of the actions. Just get out there and do stuff. That has been a challenge to rise to, but I do feel like I’m meeting it.

The second time had me relating to them as a pair. They were together, and I felt into what it was like to have two people committed to the joint project of meeting my needs and raising me, together. It touched an old wound I didn’t even realize I had! I cried quite intensely for a minute or two, and it left me feeling more secure and cared for. I feel like I’m carrying that with me now.

This final time was even stranger. We were at a university and we all sort of split up and explored the buildings. The father figure found himself in a chemistry lab, while the mother was across the quad in a library. I wandered through the buildings, excited to explore freely, noting that I didn’t feel any fear or urgency about being cut off from the parents or lost somewhere there. Eventually, I happened upon a building and discovered, to my chagrin, that I didn’t know what it was for and yet something was gently compelling me to stay there. The allure of the other buildings faded, and I found myself hanging out in this one, strange building. The somatic experience of this was interesting, too! I felt a bit of a concentration above my left eye, as if the position of the building mattered, and the muscles in my skull there were working to gently hold my attention there.

What I gathered from this experience was quite lovely: physical and spiritual development are universal and quite necessary, but there is an underlying differentiation below (and maybe based _upon_ those) that takes us far away from all others. It’s easier to explore this when we don’t have attachment wounds constantly driving us back into compensatory strategies (relationships, addiction, and distraction). The differentiation that happens here turns us into something utterly unique and possibly incomprehensible in its whole, and yet, we can go back and commune with the others, in the same ways we always did—through speaking, loving, and sharing the experience. We don’t need to be understood, but to be _met_. The truth of our uniqueness and our “divinity” will shine through.

That was the first time I felt truly free to “go off” and explore what compels me, without thought to “what will they think” or “will this be useful to anyone.” Thank God.

Coming away from this experience left me feeling like this is an essential part of “spiritual” (or psychosocial, for you non-woo types) development. Healing the primary social wiring would change the lives of most people I know. It’s tricky work, but I am convinced that bringing it to a broader audience (honestly, this should be done in school) would change things dramatically.

I’m curious what kind of groups are working on just that...